[Izzy] The Digimon Encyclopedia!
Tentomon.
This Digimon is my
very own partner.
Underneath that shell,
are a set of thin wings.
That means Tentomon can fly
me around whenever I want!
Now check this out!
Tentomon sometimes speaks
like someone from the
Kansai region of Japan.
I have no idea why and I
don't know what that means!
I should ask about it
when I get a chance.
Which Digimon will
it be next time?
(theme music begins)
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in deep
♪ Trying to take the leap
♪ Believe you can fly
♪ Become the wind
♪ Soar beyond the unknown
(theme music continues)
♪ Can't hold back
this lightning speed ♪
♪ Trust your heart
will take the lead ♪
♪ Never turning back and
never letting fate decide ♪
♪ Skies ahead may not be blue
♪ That don't mean we
can't break through ♪
♪ Leave your cares behind
♪ We'll never know
until we try ♪
♪ So what can we say
♪ We'll blaze our own way
♪ We'll make it up
♪ We're cranking
up the altitude ♪
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in
deep, gonna take the leap ♪
♪ Sail into the sky
♪ Over the horizon,
adventure waits ♪
♪ It's calling you
♪ Don't dare think twice
♪ Just take the dive
♪ Yeah, become the wind
♪ And soar beyond the unknown
♪ Chasing the
light of tomorrow ♪
♪ Illuminate a new,
and glorious world ♪
[Narrator] CannonBeemon had
been capturing FanBeemon
to turn them into their foot
soldiers in the Digital World.
Sora's group happened to pass
by and saw what was happening.
However, in the process, Joe
and Gomamon were captured.
In order to save Joe,
Gomamon, and FanBeemon,
the Digidestined took on
CannonBeemon and, in the end,
successfully rescued
the captives!
And it was during that battle
that Birdramon managed to
digivolve into Garudamon.
(upbeat music)
You know,
I could just carry everyone
if you'd prefer that!
No, that's okay.
It'll be tough on you if
you need to keep flying.
You need to get some
rest, too, you know!
That's right. Just
hop on, too, Biyomon.
Right! Oh, thank goodness!
Hey, why don't you guys come
hop on up here with us, too?
It's nice and high off the
ground, and it's super comfy!
He's calling us. You listening?
It's like a hammock! I
swear you're gonna like it!
Joe, careful. You'll fall again.
Hey! Matt! Can't you hear me?
Are you trying to
get some exercise?
Is it leg day or something?
Oh, wait, I get it!
You're being our advance
scout, is that it?
Uh, hey, Matt?
Look, it's fine.
[Biyomon] What's
an advance scout?
[Sora] I don't know.
[Joe] You don't?!
Well, as the oldest, Joe here
will share his knowledge!
Now pay attention.
(car crashes)
[Host] The cause of the
widespread power outage
in the metropolitan area
still remains a mystery.
We've had reports of
accidents and disasters
across the whole area.
Fire department
officials have announced
that the outage has
complicated their efforts
to put out ongoing fires,
so they're asking people
to be extra cautious
with flammable materials.
Also, a growing number of people
have become trapped in elevators
and are currently
awaiting rescue.
Officials are asking that
if you live in a
multi-story housing complex
or are in another tall
building right now,
please go and check elevators
that might be nearby.
(wind howls)
[Agumon] This place
looks totally crazy!
It's like a natural
maze just grew here!
Yeah, right?
The pathways are
so twisty and turny
with a hefty dose of
squiggly thrown in!
What happens if we get lost
and can't get back out again?
I'm scared!
There's really no
need to be worried.
After all, they say there's no
puzzle that can't be solved.
I'm sure that this
maze will be--
(computer crackles)
Oh, no! It happened again!
I've lost all reception!
Well, if worse comes to
worst, not saying it will,
I can guide you from above.
Us getting lost
would be bad enough,
but let's try not to
get separated, either.
This place has a layout
that may make it difficult
for us to communicate
with our Digivices.
That's a good point.
(Mimi giggles)
Palmon, your face
looks so weird!
Yeah, I know! Yours
looks weird, too, Mimi!
What if I really
looked like this?
(both giggle)
What's going on, you guys?
Just look!
Funny, huh?
Oh, yeah! Everybody's
face looks weird!
This is just like those
things at amusement parks.
Funhouse mirrors.
It appears that when something
uncovers the minerals
that can be found in the
interior of these rocks,
they become reflective
just like mirrors are.
Hang on a second,
let me analyze it.
Oh. That's right.
It's not working.
Oh.
(wings flap)
-That's too bad.
-Tai!
(rumbling in the distance)
Uh, what was that?
(all gasp)
(gasps)
Hey, look!
(all gasp)
(shrieks)
That Digimon is...
It's no good. I can't
look anything up!
Izzy, let me introduce
you to Kuwagamon!
They're very nasty!
Emphasis on very.
And extra emphasis on nasty!
(shrieks)
There's more!
[Mimi] One, two, three, four.
There are five of them?!
[Izzy] We're trapped!
They have us surrounded!
[Tai] Here they come!
(Digivices beep)
Palmon digivolve to...
Tentomon digivolve to...
Agumon digivolve to...
Togemon!
Kabuterimon!
Greymon!
(grunts)
Needle Spray!
Togemon!
(screams)
What the...?
What was that?!
It's got so many claws and
they're all super sharp!
(grunts)
All right, let's
see who's stronger!
Get him, Kabuterimon!
(grunts)
(pants)
(both grunt)
Electro Shocker!
Kabuterimon!
(Kabuterimon groans)
Kabuterimon would stand a
chance if it were one-on-one.
If I could just figure
out their attack pattern.
(Izzy groans)
(grunts)
(gasps)
Coconut Counter!
(Greymon grunts)
Oh, Tai!
Mimi! Togemon! Thanks
for the help, you guys!
(all gasp)
No, Kabuterimon!
(gasps) That's
gonna leave a mark.
Izzy, what happened?
[Izzy] Those Kuwagamon
look like they're
attacking randomly,
but there's more to it.
They're actually moving in
coordination with each other
based on their exact positions.
This fight is really
more like a hunt!
Then does that mean
we're their prey?
We're in a real pickle, here.
And I hate pickles.
(all gasp)
(shrieks)
(all pant)
It's narrower here,
so, they won't be able to
swarm over us like flies!
But until we completely shake
them off, we can't relax.
I just hope that it isn't
a dead-end up ahead.
[Mimi] What?!
(wings buzz)
Izzy, they're gonna
catch up soon.
We've gotta keep moving.
You're right.
(shrieks)
(all gasp)
No way!
(ominous music)
(shrieks)
(all whimper)
What is it now?!
That... That's an Ultimate
Digimon! Oukuwamon!
This guy's bad
news. He's no joke!
Kuwagamon! They've
got us cornered here!
(energy whirs)
(all scream)
Hey, is everybody doing okay?!
(grunts)
We're good!
Well, except for how
everything hurts!
(grunts)
Togemon!
(screams)
(grunts)
(shrieks)
Greymon! Kabuterimon!
(both grunt)
Ugh, I've had about all I can
take! Can't we do something?
[Tai] We've got no chance if
we're surrounded like this.
We've gotta find a way to break
through the enemy's lines!
[Mimi] You mean let's
run away for now?
I'm on board with that!
(groans)
[Izzy] If only this
thing would just work!
(energy whirs)
Everyone! Scatter now!
(all grunt)
(all scream)
(grunts)
(pants)
You there, Tai? Mimi?
Can you guys hear me?
It's no use.
(gasps)
(energy whirs)
Izzy! Make sure that you
hold on tight, you hear me?!
(mid-tempo action music)
Hey, Greymon! Are
you doing okay?!
Yeah.
(shrieks)
(both grunt)
At this rate, we won't
be able to do anything!
(Togemon grunts)
(gasps)
Togemon!
Nova Blast!
(whimpers)
Mimi! You all right?!
(screams)
This maze and the
Kuwagamon! I hate 'em!
(all grunt)
Well, they don't seem
to like us, either.
I'm so sorry! But I gotta
call 'em like I see 'em!
And I do hate 'em!
Somehow we've managed
to shake them off.
We need to hurry up and join
back up with the others.
If we fly too high up,
we'll get caught
by those bad guys.
So we'll just have to make
our way through this maze.
Yeah, sure.
Izzy, I need your help. Can
you guide me through it?
Izzy?
Sorry, I can't.
If this isn't working, I
can't analyze the data.
I can't even collect the data.
(rumbling in the distance)
(gasps)
(ominous music)
(both grunt)
Man, this guy doesn't
know when to quit!
Okay, if that's what you want,
you got it! I'll take you on!
Kabuterimon wait!
(grunts)
This is what the spirit
of Digimon is all about!
(grunts)
You're not getting
rid of me that easily!
Electro Shocker!
(grunts)
(pants)
(grunts continue)
(gasps)
Huh?
Izzy.
(grunts)
(gasps)
(whimpers)
(grunts weakly)
(shrieks)
Kabuterimon!
I'm absolutely useless!
There's nothing that I can do!
[Kabuterimon] Izzy.
You're wrong about that.
You still have something left.
The ultimate weapon.
That's even more powerful
than any computer!
You know what I'm talking
about, don't you, Izzy?
I mean your brain!
All that knowledge
you have in there!
It's you, Izzy!
(gasps)
(grunts)
(mid-tempo action music)
(gasps)
Kabuterimon!
Aim for that crack up
there on the right side!
All right!
(energy whirs)
(grunts)
(shrieks)
I think you dropped this.
Wow, thank you!
I guess I was just so
desperate to be the one
that helped everyone
out all the time.
It just became
second nature for me.
To always rely on this
to decide what to do.
I forgot that I was the person
sitting in front
of the computer.
That it was only
a tool I was using
to help me figure out solutions.
At least, until you
reminded me, Kabuterimon.
Even machines have days
when they don't feel well,
just like people do.
When that happens,
you merely have to
reassess your abilities
and overcome the
obstacles in front of you!
Now, given the agility of
Greymon and everyone else,
and factoring in the
Kuwagamon's attack pattern...
I got it!
We need to go search the area
around where we got separated.
And make sure that we
focus on any narrow paths
and dead ends!
Yes! Nice job, Izzy!
Crank that brain of
yours up to full speed!
I'm totally picking up
what you're putting down!
(Digivice beeps)
Kabuterimon...
Digivolve to...
(upscale action music)
(gasps)
(groans)
(grunts)
Oh, no! Togemon!
What? No way!
Whoa!
Yeah, I'm pretty
psyched about it, too!
Hey, guys! MegaKabuterimon,
here. At your service!
How's everyone doing?
Are you all right?!
Hey, Izzy! Kabuterimon
digivolved to...
(grunts)
(roars)
[Izzy] Oukuwamon!
All right!
What do you say we
take this outside?
Hmm!
[Togemon] I don't think so!
Get 'em, Togemon!
(grunts)
Hey, Tai! Mimi! Listen up!
Remember those mirror rocks?
I need you to use them
against these guys!
Confuse them by getting them
to focus on our reflections!
I think doing that that oughta
break their coordination!
If you guys go left, right,
then left from where
you are right now,
you should get to that place
that's full of the mirror
rocks we found earlier!
Kay, got it! Togemon!
(grunts excitedly)
Hey, come here!
(pants)
(grunts)
(both struggle)
Oh, no! Oh, no! Oh, no!
(screams)
Ha! Just kidding! Oh, Togemon!
(shouts)
Needle Spray!
[Greymon] The Kuwagamon
are getting confused!
It's just like Izzy predicted!
(Digivice beeps)
Greymon digivolve to...
(roars)
Metal Greymon!
Giga Storm!
(both struggle)
So, Izzy?
Does this plan of yours
have a part of us to play?
Yeah, of course!
I suggest a head-on battle
with all the power you have!
Go, MegaKabuterimon!
All right!
(grunts)
Good! Good! Good!
Let's see how you like the taste
of my fresh, new digivolution!
Horn...
Buster!
[Both] Yeah! All right!
Good!
(both chuckle)
I knew that he'd
pull it off somehow!
Isn't Izzy's awesome?
Like they say, a friend in
need is a friend indeed!
Yeah!
Uh-huh! Good! Good!
(computer beeps)
Huh?
Hey, look! It's working!
Whoa, really?!
Things are looking up!
(chuckles)
Huh?
What's wrong?
It actually seems to
be even faster now!
Mm-hmm! Very good, very good!
(all giggle)
[Mimi] That's my little helper!
(snores)
He fell asleep.
[Biyomon] He
must've gotten tired
from talking at
Matt for so long.
[Ikkaumon] Let's just
let him sleep for now.
[Sora] Yeah.
Hey, it's finally quiet.
[Matt] Let's hop on for a while.
[Gabumon] Hey, if you say so.
(upbeat music)
♪ We're falling rapidly
♪ Are we gonna lose it all?
♪ What is it you're
waiting for? ♪
♪ The headwind's signaling
♪ That we better
give this our all ♪
♪ Believe and push forward
♪ Is this the strength
we've been looking for? ♪
♪ Is this the reason we need
to kick down the door? ♪
♪ Is the seed of failure
sprouting into wings? ♪
♪ Does the past
decide the future? ♪
♪ So if you hope
to see a rainbow ♪
♪ You need to open
up your eyes ♪
♪ Take a helping
hand and understand ♪
♪ That it's time you realize
♪ If you wanna make
your dreams reality, ♪
♪ It may not be easy
♪ Just take a breath
and take a chance ♪
♪ Next thing you know,
♪ You're a shining
beacon in the sky ♪
[Narrator] Garurumon
dashes, and Joe slides.
Joe and Ikkakumon stand
up against the danger
threatening Matt and Sora!
[Tai] Next time. "Zudomon's
Iron Hammer of Lightning"
[Narrator] The adventure
continues to a new world.